---
title: |

  Title: The History App

  Author: Mukonazwothe R. Ntsandeni

  Date: 5 April 2024
---

![](vertopal_804753f41b6043cd8e180c9cbe2841ff/media/image1.jpg){width="6.85in"
height="4.141666666666667in"}

[]{#_Toc163248934 .anchor}Figure 1:Miyamoto Musashi

# Table of Contents {#table-of-contents .TOC-Heading}

[Table of Figures: [2](#table-of-figures)](#table-of-figures)

[1.Purpose of the app: [3](#purpose-of-the-app)](#purpose-of-the-app)

[2.The design of the app:
[3](#the-design-of-the-app)](#the-design-of-the-app)

[Design Considerations:
[4](#design-considerations)](#design-considerations)

[The Intuitive design of the app
[4](#the-intuitive-design-of-the-app)](#the-intuitive-design-of-the-app)

[Content Prioritisation
[4](#content-prioritisation)](#content-prioritisation)

[Legible font & Lettering
[5](#legible-font-lettering)](#legible-font-lettering)

[Visible Interface Elements
[6](#visible-interface-elements)](#visible-interface-elements)

[Images Used [6](#images-used)](#images-used)

[Hand Position Controls
[6](#hand-position-controls)](#hand-position-controls)

[Choice of colour: [7](#choice-of-colour)](#choice-of-colour)

[3.Github and GitHub Actions:
[7](#github-and-github-actions)](#github-and-github-actions)

[4.Link to YouTube Demonstration of the app:
[7](#link-to-youtube-demonstration-of-the-app)](#link-to-youtube-demonstration-of-the-app)

[5.Reference List: [7](#reference-list)](#reference-list)

# Table of Figures:

[Figure 1:Miyamoto Musashi [1](#_Toc163248934)](#_Toc163248934)

[Figure 2:Renaissance Art [3](#_Toc163266689)](#_Toc163266689)

[Figure 3:My app design [4](#_Toc163253438)](#_Toc163253438)

[Figure 4:The writing of old [5](#_Toc163253439)](#_Toc163253439)

# 

![](vertopal_804753f41b6043cd8e180c9cbe2841ff/media/image3.jpeg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="3.7777777777777777in"}

[]{#_Toc163266689 .anchor}Figure 2:Renaissance Art

# 1.Purpose of the app:

For this section I will talk about the desired result, functionality,
and tasks that this application(app) will carry out and be used for,
explore, and discuss for whom this program will be used for.

This application or programme was made with the intended functionality
and intention to educate and enlighten young minds, using technology and
making use of an interactive platform to accomplish this result.
Fortunately, this application can access and used by an audience of any
age whether they're old or young the application is open to all.

# 2.The design of the app:

In this section, we will talk about and go into detail about the design
and features of the app, exploring how it was created, designed and what
it can do. We\'ll take a closer look at its user interface which was
made with intention of being user friendly, colourful graphics, easy
interactive design and navigation, making it enjoyable for everyone to
use and even educate.

## Design Considerations:

![](vertopal_804753f41b6043cd8e180c9cbe2841ff/media/image5.png){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="3.5256944444444445in"}

[]{#_Toc163253438 .anchor}Figure 3:My app design

### The Intuitive design of the app

The program and the app have been specially designed with the intended
purpose of attracting the user's attention and interest, it has also
been tailored to those who prefer not to have to much to deal with and
value simplicity or rather those that believe that "less is more". All
the program has been designed in such a way that is easy for the user to
understand and navigate through.

### Content Prioritisation 

The program has been made in a way that its priorities the basic,
uttermost and intended function of the application as to not overwhelm
or confuse the target market or rather the user despite their age
whether they are young and youthful or old and grey. The app has been
designed for such a purpose as to not complicate and give the user a
straightforward answer catering to the user's needs before anything else
while try to cater to those who aren't the most patient.

### 

### Legible font & Lettering 

For the aspect of legibility and lettering the app was made in such a
way that it was made with clear and legible font for the target audience
if not for all age groups and people apart from the main heading written
in most would describe as a text written in a dark shade of yellow

Reading, "The History App" which was written with the cursive font with
the intention to match the aesthetic of the historic theme of the design
and application.

### 

The font size was made in such a manner that it would seem small and
subtle but big enough to seem clear to those that interact with the
application or design using a simple but classic and standard font
through the program.

![](vertopal_804753f41b6043cd8e180c9cbe2841ff/media/image6.jpg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="3.917361111111111in"}

[]{#_Toc163253439 .anchor}Figure 4:The writing of old

### Visible Interface Elements 

The application or program was made in such a way that none of the
elements featured in the design would clash, design or generally made it
in such a way that it is not a struggle to interact with the
application.

The application was developed and designed in a way that the elements
have enough spacing from each other and does not construct or overlap
one another but not so much but at just the right measurement, allowing
all of them to be easily accessible and interactive.

## Images Used 

The images used in the program were used as means as to add to the
historic aesthetic of the design or the main idea or purpose of the
historic theme which was the focus or theme of the project.

The images being in the black and white added to that very historic
theme or aesthetic of the app and adds that very effect when the user
uses the application or rather even when the user would view or rather
see the design and interface.

The placement of the images would make allow for a easy place for the
functionality of the application and where they could or would see the
result and output of the app as well as the output all while keep the
attention of the user.

## Hand Position Controls 

In the design the interactive function which, within my design are the
clear button, generate button and input line where the user will put in
their desired integer they have all been placed in such a way that it
allows the user to use they app if they could only use one hand for
which ever reason that may be the case it and any other way they choose
to use the app,

This was done to tailor for the preference of the user and how they
normally interact with apps as not to make it displeasing to them and
comfortably interact with the app(application).

## Choice of colour:

The choice of colours used for this app(application) were chosen for the
sole purpose of creativity and to capture the attention of the audience.
Using a mix of versatile and muted colours like the grey of the
background, black text, black and white of the pictures together with
bold colours like the darker shade of yellow which was the yellow font
colour of the main heading at the top of the design and the dark shade
of purple used for the buttons all equate to a high chance of grabbing
and keeping the attention of a user especially of the intended target
audience which in this case are the youth .

This was done with accounting for the short attention the most people
have nowadays due to the constant exposure of dopamine that people are
exposed to everyday.

# 3.Github and GitHub Actions:

# 4.Link to YouTube Demonstration of the app:

This here is the YouTube link to the demonstration of the app being used
and its design and code being put into play.

Link: [IMAD Assignment 1 Demonstration](https://youtu.be/rs9_934NZxQ)

# 5.Reference List:

[Reference List:]{.underline}

1\. Britannica. (n.d.). Alexander Hamilton. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from
<https://www.britannica.com/biography/Alexander-Hamilton-United-States-statesman>

2\. Britannica. (n.d.). Alexander the Great. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from
<https://www.britannica.com/biography/Alexander-the-Great>

3\. Britannica. (n.d.). Amelia Earhart. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from <https://www.britannica.com/biography/Amelia-Earhart>

4\. Britannica. (n.d.). Friedrich Nietzsche. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from
<https://www.britannica.com/biography/Friedrich-Nietzsche>

5\. Britannica. (n.d.). Galileo Galilei. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from <https://www.britannica.com/biography/Galileo-Galilei>

6\. Britannica. (n.d.). Henry the Young King. In Encyclopædia
Britannica. Retrieved from
<https://www.britannica.com/biography/Henry-the-Young-King>

7\. Britannica. (n.d.). Leonardo da Vinci. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from <https://www.britannica.com/biography/Leonardo-da-Vinci>

8\. Britannica. (n.d.). Mark Twain. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from <https://www.britannica.com/biography/Mark-Twain>

9\. Britannica. (n.d.). Michelangelo. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from <https://www.britannica.com/biography/Michelangelo>

10\. Britannica. (n.d.). Miyamoto Musashi. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from
<https://www.britannica.com/biography/Miyamoto-Musashi-Japanese-soldier-artist>

11\. Britannica. (n.d.). Napoleon François Charles Joseph Bonaparte,
Herzog von Reichstadt. In Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved from
<https://www.britannica.com/biography/Napoleon-Francois-Charles-Joseph-Bonaparte-Herzog-von-Reichstadt>

12\. Britannica. (n.d.). Nelson Mandela. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from <https://www.britannica.com/biography/Nelson-Mandela>

13\. Britannica. (n.d.). Thomas Jefferson. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved [from
https://www.britannica.com/biography/Thomas-Jefferson](from%20https:/www.britannica.com/biography/Thomas-Jefferson)

14\. Britannica. (n.d.). Winston Churchill. In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from <https://www.britannica.com/biography/Winston-Churchill>

15\. Britannica. (n.d.). William Shakespeare. In Encyclopædia
Britannica. Retrieved from
<https://www.britannica.com/biography/William-Shakespeare>

16\. Britannica. (n.d.). Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. In Encyclopædia
Britannica. Retrieved from
<https://www.britannica.com/biography/Wolfgang-Amadeus-Mozart>

# 

#  

